docs/data-sources/chrome_policy_schema.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Chrome Policy Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema (Data Source)

Chrome Policy Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema" "example" {
  schema_name = "chrome.printers.AllowForUsers"
}

output "field_descriptions" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema.example.field_descriptions
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **schema_name** (String) The full qualified name of the policy schema

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **access_restrictions** (List of String) Specific access restrictions related to this policy.
- **additional_target_key_names** (List of Object) Additional key names that will be used to identify the target of the policy value. When specifying a policyTargetKey, each of the additional keys specified here will have to be included in the additionalTargetKeys map. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--additional_target_key_names))
- **definition** (List of Object) Schema definition using proto descriptor. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--definition))
- **field_descriptions** (String) Detailed description of each field that is part of the schema, represented as a JSON string.
- **notices** (List of Object) Special notice messages related to setting certain values in certain fields in the schema. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--notices))
- **policy_description** (String) Description about the policy schema for user consumption.
- **support_uri** (String) URI to related support article for this schema.

<a id="nestedatt--additional_target_key_names"></a>
### Nested Schema for `additional_target_key_names`

Read-Only:

- **key** (String)
- **key_description** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--definition"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition`

Read-Only:

- **enum_type** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type))
- **message_type** (String)
- **name** (String)
- **package** (String)
- **syntax** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition.enum_type`

Read-Only:

- **name** (String)
- **value** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type--value))

<a id="nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type--value"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition.enum_type.value`

Read-Only:

- **name** (String)
- **number** (Number)




<a id="nestedatt--notices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `notices`

Read-Only:

- **acknowledgement_required** (Boolean)
- **field** (String)
- **notice_message** (String)
- **notice_value** (String)

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs (#158)

docs/data-sources/chrome_policy_schema.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Chrome Policy Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Chrome Policy Schema resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/chrome.management.policy client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema (Data Source)

Chrome Policy Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Chrome Policy Schema resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/chrome.management.policy` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema" "example" {
  schema_name = "chrome.printers.AllowForUsers"
}

output "field_descriptions" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_chrome_policy_schema.example.field_descriptions
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **schema_name** (String) The full qualified name of the policy schema

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **access_restrictions** (List of String) Specific access restrictions related to this policy.
- **additional_target_key_names** (List of Object) Additional key names that will be used to identify the target of the policy value. When specifying a policyTargetKey, each of the additional keys specified here will have to be included in the additionalTargetKeys map. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--additional_target_key_names))
- **definition** (List of Object) Schema definition using proto descriptor. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--definition))
- **field_descriptions** (String) Detailed description of each field that is part of the schema, represented as a JSON string.
- **notices** (List of Object) Special notice messages related to setting certain values in certain fields in the schema. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--notices))
- **policy_description** (String) Description about the policy schema for user consumption.
- **support_uri** (String) URI to related support article for this schema.

<a id="nestedatt--additional_target_key_names"></a>
### Nested Schema for `additional_target_key_names`

Read-Only:

- **key** (String)
- **key_description** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--definition"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition`

Read-Only:

- **enum_type** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type))
- **message_type** (String)
- **name** (String)
- **package** (String)
- **syntax** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition.enum_type`

Read-Only:

- **name** (String)
- **value** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type--value))

<a id="nestedobjatt--definition--enum_type--value"></a>
### Nested Schema for `definition.enum_type.value`

Read-Only:

- **name** (String)
- **number** (Number)




<a id="nestedatt--notices"></a>
### Nested Schema for `notices`

Read-Only:

- **acknowledgement_required** (Boolean)
- **field** (String)
- **notice_message** (String)
- **notice_value** (String)
