docs/data-sources/domain_alias.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_domain_alias Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Domain Alias data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_domain_alias (Data Source)

Domain Alias data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_domain_alias" "example" {
  domain_alias_name = "alias-example.com"
}

output "parent-domain" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_domain_alias.example.parent_domain_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **domain_alias_name** (String) The domain alias name.

### Read-Only

- **creation_time** (Number) Creation time of the domain alias.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **parent_domain_name** (String) The parent domain name that the domain alias is associated with. This can either be a primary or secondary domain name within a customer.
- **verified** (Boolean) Indicates the verification state of a domain alias.

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs

docs/data-sources/domain_alias.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_domain_alias Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Domain Alias data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Domain Alias resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.domain client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_domain_alias (Data Source)

Domain Alias data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Domain Alias resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.domain` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_domain_alias" "example" {
  domain_alias_name = "alias-example.com"
}

output "parent-domain" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_domain_alias.example.parent_domain_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **domain_alias_name** (String) The domain alias name.

### Read-Only

- **creation_time** (Number) Creation time of the domain alias.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **parent_domain_name** (String) The parent domain name that the domain alias is associated with. This can either be a primary or secondary domain name within a customer.
- **verified** (Boolean) Indicates the verification state of a domain alias.
