docs/data-sources/domain.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_domain Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Domain data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_domain (Data Source)

Domain data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_domain" "example" {
  domain_name = "example.com"
}

output "domain_verified" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_domain.example.verified
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **domain_name** (String) The domain name of the customer.

### Read-Only

- **creation_time** (Number) Creation time of the domain. Expressed in Unix time format.
- **domain_aliases** (List of String) asps.list of domain alias objects.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **is_primary** (Boolean) Indicates if the domain is a primary domain.
- **verified** (Boolean) Indicates the verification state of a domain.

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs

docs/data-sources/domain.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_domain Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Domain data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Domain resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.domain client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_domain (Data Source)

Domain data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Domain resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.domain` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_domain" "example" {
  domain_name = "example.com"
}

output "domain_verified" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_domain.example.verified
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **domain_name** (String) The domain name of the customer.

### Read-Only

- **creation_time** (Number) Creation time of the domain. Expressed in Unix time format.
- **domain_aliases** (List of String) asps.list of domain alias objects.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **is_primary** (Boolean) Indicates if the domain is a primary domain.
- **verified** (Boolean) Indicates the verification state of a domain.
