docs/data-sources/group_members.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_group_members Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Group Members data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_group_members (Data Source)

Group Members data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_group" "sales" {
  email = "sales@example.com"
}

data "googleworkspace_group_members" "sales" {
  group_id = data.googleworkspace_group.sales.id
}

output "group_members" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_group_members.sales.members
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **group_id** (String) Identifies the group in the API request. The value can be the group's email address, group alias, or the unique group ID.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **members** (Set of Object) The members of the group (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--members))

<a id="nestedatt--members"></a>
### Nested Schema for `members`

Read-Only:

- **delivery_settings** (String)
- **email** (String)
- **id** (String)
- **role** (String)
- **status** (String)
- **type** (String)

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs

docs/data-sources/group_members.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_group_members Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Group Members data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Group Members resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_group_members (Data Source)

Group Members data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Group Members resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_group" "sales" {
  email = "sales@example.com"
}

data "googleworkspace_group_members" "sales" {
  group_id = data.googleworkspace_group.sales.id
}

output "group_members" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_group_members.sales.members
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **group_id** (String) Identifies the group in the API request. The value can be the group's email address, group alias, or the unique group ID.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **members** (Set of Object) The members of the group (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--members))

<a id="nestedatt--members"></a>
### Nested Schema for `members`

Read-Only:

- **delivery_settings** (String)
- **email** (String)
- **id** (String)
- **role** (String)
- **status** (String)
- **type** (String)
