docs/data-sources/privileges.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_privileges Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Privileges data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_privileges (Data Source)

Privileges data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

# filter using native Terraform syntax
locals {
  org_scopable_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.is_org_unit_scopable
  ]
  read_only_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if length(regexall("READ", priv.privilege_name)) > 0
  ]
  privileges_by_service_name = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.service_name == "gmail"
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "read-only" {
  name = "read-only"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.read_only_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **items** (List of Object) A list of Privilege resources. The API returns a tree-like structure with parent-child privileges, the provider flattens this list. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items))

<a id="nestedatt--items"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items`

Read-Only:

- **etag** (String)
- **is_org_unit_scopable** (Boolean)
- **privilege_name** (String)
- **service_id** (String)
- **service_name** (String)

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs (#158)

docs/data-sources/privileges.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_privileges Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Privileges data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Privileges resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_privileges (Data Source)

Privileges data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Privileges resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

# filter using native Terraform syntax
locals {
  org_scopable_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.is_org_unit_scopable
  ]
  read_only_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if length(regexall("READ", priv.privilege_name)) > 0
  ]
  privileges_by_service_name = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.service_name == "gmail"
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "read-only" {
  name = "read-only"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.read_only_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **items** (List of Object) A list of Privilege resources. The API returns a tree-like structure with parent-child privileges, the provider flattens this list. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--items))

<a id="nestedatt--items"></a>
### Nested Schema for `items`

Read-Only:

- **etag** (String)
- **is_org_unit_scopable** (Boolean)
- **privilege_name** (String)
- **service_id** (String)
- **service_name** (String)
