docs/data-sources/role.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Role data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_role (Data Source)

Role data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_role" "group-admin" {
  name = "_GROUPS_ADMIN_ROLE"
}

output "is_system_role" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_role.group-admin.is_system_role
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the role.

### Read-Only

- **description** (String) A short description of the role.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of the role.
- **is_super_admin_role** (Boolean) Returns true if the role is a super admin role.
- **is_system_role** (Boolean) Returns true if this is a pre-defined system role.
- **privileges** (Set of Object) The set of privileges that are granted to this role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--privileges))

<a id="nestedatt--privileges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `privileges`

Read-Only:

- **privilege_name** (String)
- **service_id** (String)

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs

docs/data-sources/role.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Role data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_role (Data Source)

Role data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_role" "group-admin" {
  name = "_GROUPS_ADMIN_ROLE"
}

output "is_system_role" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_role.group-admin.is_system_role
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the role.

### Read-Only

- **description** (String) A short description of the role.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of the role.
- **is_super_admin_role** (Boolean) Returns true if the role is a super admin role.
- **is_system_role** (Boolean) Returns true if this is a pre-defined system role.
- **privileges** (Set of Object) The set of privileges that are granted to this role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--privileges))

<a id="nestedatt--privileges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `privileges`

Read-Only:

- **privilege_name** (String)
- **service_id** (String)
