docs/data-sources/schema.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_schema Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_schema (Data Source)

Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_schema" "birthday" {
  schema_name = "birthday"
}

output "schema_display_name" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_schema.birthday.display_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- **schema_id** (String) The unique identifier of the schema.
- **schema_name** (String) The schema's name.

### Read-Only

- **display_name** (String) Display name for the schema.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **fields** (List of Object) A list of fields in the schema. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--fields))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedatt--fields"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields`

Read-Only:

- **display_name** (String)
- **etag** (String)
- **field_id** (String)
- **field_name** (String)
- **field_type** (String)
- **indexed** (Boolean)
- **multi_valued** (Boolean)
- **numeric_indexing_spec** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--fields--numeric_indexing_spec))
- **read_access_type** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--fields--numeric_indexing_spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields.numeric_indexing_spec`

Read-Only:

- **max_value** (Number)
- **min_value** (Number)

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs (#158)

docs/data-sources/schema.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_schema Data Source - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Schema resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.userschema client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_schema (Data Source)

Schema data source in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Schema resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.userschema` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_schema" "birthday" {
  schema_name = "birthday"
}

output "schema_display_name" {
  value = data.googleworkspace_schema.birthday.display_name
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- **schema_id** (String) The unique identifier of the schema.
- **schema_name** (String) The schema's name.

### Read-Only

- **display_name** (String) Display name for the schema.
- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **fields** (List of Object) A list of fields in the schema. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--fields))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedatt--fields"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields`

Read-Only:

- **display_name** (String)
- **etag** (String)
- **field_id** (String)
- **field_name** (String)
- **field_type** (String)
- **indexed** (Boolean)
- **multi_valued** (Boolean)
- **numeric_indexing_spec** (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--fields--numeric_indexing_spec))
- **read_access_type** (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--fields--numeric_indexing_spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields.numeric_indexing_spec`

Read-Only:

- **max_value** (Number)
- **min_value** (Number)
