README.md, before:

# Terraform Provider Google Workspace
<a href="https://terraform.io">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/hashicorp/terraform-website/master/content/source/assets/images/logo-hashicorp.svg" alt="Terraform logo" align="right" height="50" />
</a>

![Status: Tech Preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-experimental-EAAA32) [![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace.svg)](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/releases)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace.svg)](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/blob/main/LICENSE)![Unit tests](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/workflows/Unit%20tests/badge.svg)

This Google Workspace provider for Terraform allows you to manage domains, users, and groups in your Google Workspace.

This provider is a technical preview, which means it's a community supported project. It still requires extensive testing and polishing to mature into a HashiCorp officially supported project. Please [file issues](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/issues/new/choose) generously and detail your experience while using the provider. We welcome your feedback.

## Maintainers

This provider plugin is maintained by the Terraform team at [HashiCorp](https://www.hashicorp.com/)

## Requirements

-	[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 0.13.x
-	[Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.16

## Upgrading the provider

The Google Workspace provider doesn't upgrade automatically once you've started using it. After a new release you can run

```bash
terraform init -upgrade
```

to upgrade to the latest stable version of the Google Workspace provider. See the [Terraform website](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html#provider-versions)
for more information on provider upgrades, and how to set version constraints on your provider.

## Building The Provider

1. Clone the repository
1. Enter the repository directory
1. Build the provider using the Go `install` command or `make build`:
```sh
$ make build
```

## Adding Dependencies

This provider uses [Go modules](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules).
Please see the Go documentation for the most up to date information about using Go modules.

To add a new dependency `github.com/author/dependency` to your Terraform provider:

```
go get github.com/author/dependency
go mod tidy
```

Then commit the changes to `go.mod` and `go.sum`.

## Using The provider

See the [Google Workspace Provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/googleworkspace/latest/docs) to get started using the
Google Workspace provider.

## Developing the Provider

If you wish to work on the provider, you'll first need [Go](http://www.golang.org) installed on your machine (see [Requirements](#requirements) above).
You can use [goenv](https://github.com/syndbg/goenv) to manage your Go version.
To compile the provider, run `go install`. This will build the provider and put the provider binary in the `$GOPATH/bin` directory.

To generate or update documentation, run `go generate`.

In order to run the full suite of Acceptance tests, run `make testacc`.

*Note:* Acceptance tests create real resources, and often cost money to run.

```sh
$ make testacc
```

For guidance on common development practices such as testing changes, see the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).
If you have other development questions we don't cover, please file an issue!

## Special Recognition

* [Chase](https://github.com/DeviaVir) - for the excellent work creating the `DeviaVir/terraform-provider-gsuite` provider, the inspiration for this project.

## General Feedback
* How can we best support you ? - [feedback](https://forms.gle/XeqgPiFTtdevcRiu8)

Commit message:

Update README to include experimental copy

README.md, after:

# Terraform Provider Google Workspace
<a href="https://terraform.io">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/hashicorp/terraform-website/master/content/source/assets/images/logo-hashicorp.svg" alt="Terraform logo" align="right" height="50" />
</a>

![Status: Tech Preview](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-experimental-EAAA32) [![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace.svg)](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/releases)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace.svg)](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/blob/main/LICENSE)![Unit tests](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/workflows/Unit%20tests/badge.svg)

This Google Workspace provider for Terraform allows you to manage domains, users, and groups in your Google Workspace.

This provider is a technical preview, which means it's a community supported project. It still requires extensive testing and polishing to mature into a HashiCorp officially supported project. Please [file issues](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/issues/new/choose) generously and detail your experience while using the provider. We welcome your feedback.

## Experimental Status

By using the software in this repository (the "Software"), you acknowledge that: (1) the Software is still in development, may change, and has not been released as a commercial product by HashiCorp and is not currently supported in any way by HashiCorp; (2) the Software is provided on an "as-is" basis, and may include bugs, errors, or other issues; (3) the Software is NOT INTENDED FOR PRODUCTION USE, use of the Software may result in unexpected results, loss of data, or other unexpected results, and HashiCorp disclaims any and all liability resulting from use of the Software; and (4) HashiCorp reserves all rights to make all decisions about the features, functionality and commercial release (or non-release) of the Software, at any time and without any obligation or liability whatsoever.

## Maintainers

This provider plugin is maintained by the Terraform team at [HashiCorp](https://www.hashicorp.com/)

## Requirements

-	[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html) >= 0.13.x
-	[Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) >= 1.16

## Upgrading the provider

The Google Workspace provider doesn't upgrade automatically once you've started using it. After a new release you can run

```bash
terraform init -upgrade
```

to upgrade to the latest stable version of the Google Workspace provider. See the [Terraform website](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/providers.html#provider-versions)
for more information on provider upgrades, and how to set version constraints on your provider.

## Building The Provider

1. Clone the repository
1. Enter the repository directory
1. Build the provider using the Go `install` command or `make build`:
```sh
$ make build
```

## Adding Dependencies

This provider uses [Go modules](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules).
Please see the Go documentation for the most up to date information about using Go modules.

To add a new dependency `github.com/author/dependency` to your Terraform provider:

```
go get github.com/author/dependency
go mod tidy
```

Then commit the changes to `go.mod` and `go.sum`.

## Using The provider

See the [Google Workspace Provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/googleworkspace/latest/docs) to get started using the
Google Workspace provider.

## Developing the Provider

If you wish to work on the provider, you'll first need [Go](http://www.golang.org) installed on your machine (see [Requirements](#requirements) above).
You can use [goenv](https://github.com/syndbg/goenv) to manage your Go version.
To compile the provider, run `go install`. This will build the provider and put the provider binary in the `$GOPATH/bin` directory.

To generate or update documentation, run `go generate`.

In order to run the full suite of Acceptance tests, run `make testacc`.

*Note:* Acceptance tests create real resources, and often cost money to run.

```sh
$ make testacc
```

For guidance on common development practices such as testing changes, see the [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-googleworkspace/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).
If you have other development questions we don't cover, please file an issue!

## Special Recognition

* [Chase](https://github.com/DeviaVir) - for the excellent work creating the `DeviaVir/terraform-provider-gsuite` provider, the inspiration for this project.

## General Feedback
* How can we best support you ? - [feedback](https://forms.gle/XeqgPiFTtdevcRiu8)
