---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_group_members Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Group Members resource manages Google Workspace Groups Members. Group Members resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_group_members (Resource)

Group Members resource manages Google Workspace Groups Members. Group Members resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.group` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "googleworkspace_group" "sales" {
  email = "sales@example.com"
}

resource "googleworkspace_user" "michael" {
  primary_email = "michael.scott@example.com"
  password      = "34819d7beeabb9260a5c854bc85b3e44"
  hash_function = "MD5"

  name {
    family_name = "Scott"
    given_name  = "Michael"
  }
}

resource "googleworkspace_user" "frank" {
  primary_email = "frank.scott@example.com"
  password      = "2095312189753de6ad47dfe20cbe97ec"
  hash_function = "MD5"

  name {
    family_name = "Scott"
    given_name  = "Frank"
  }
}

resource "googleworkspace_group_members" "sales" {
  group_id = googleworkspace_group.sales.id

  members {
    email = googleworkspace_user.michael.primary_email
    role  = "MANAGER"
  }

  members {
    email = googleworkspace_user.frank.primary_email
    role  = "MEMBER"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **group_id** (String) Identifies the group in the API request. The value can be the group's email address, group alias, or the unique group ID.

### Optional

- **members** (Block Set) The members of the group (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--members))

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--members"></a>
### Nested Schema for `members`

Required:

- **email** (String) The member's email address. A member can be a user or another group. This property isrequired when adding a member to a group. The email must be unique and cannot be an alias of another group. If the email address is changed, the API automatically reflects the email address changes.

Optional:

- **delivery_settings** (String) Defines mail delivery preferences of member. Acceptable values are:
	- `ALL_MAIL`: All messages, delivered as soon as they arrive. 
	- `DAILY`: No more than one message a day. 
	- `DIGEST`: Up to 25 messages bundled into a single message. 
	- `DISABLED`: Remove subscription. 
	- `NONE`: No messages. Defaults to `ALL_MAIL`.
- **role** (String) The member's role in a group. The API returns an error for cycles in group memberships. For example, if group1 is a member of group2, group2 cannot be a member of group1. Acceptable values are: 
	- `MANAGER`: This role is only available if the Google Groups for Business is enabled using the Admin Console. A `MANAGER` role can do everything done by an `OWNER` role except make a member an `OWNER` or delete the group. A group can have multiple `MANAGER` members. 
	- `MEMBER`: This role can subscribe to a group, view discussion archives, and view the group's membership list. 
	- `OWNER`: This role can send messages to the group, add or remove members, change member roles, change group's settings, and delete the group. An OWNER must be a member of the group. A group can have more than one OWNER. Defaults to `MEMBER`.
- **type** (String) The type of group member. Acceptable values are: 
	- `CUSTOMER`: The member represents all users in a domain. An email address is not returned and the ID returned is the customer ID. 
	- `GROUP`: The member is another group. 
	- `USER`: The member is a user. Defaults to `USER`.

Read-Only:

- **id** (String) The unique ID of the group member. A member id can be used as a member request URI's memberKey.
- **status** (String) Status of member.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_group_members.sales groups/01abcde23fg4h5i
```
