docs/resources/role.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Role resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_role (Resource)

Role resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

locals {
  read_only_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if length(regexall("READ", priv.privilege_name)) > 0
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "read-only" {
  name = "read-only"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.read_only_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the role.
- **privileges** (Block Set, Min: 1) The set of privileges that are granted to this role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--privileges))

### Optional

- **description** (String) A short description of the role.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of the role.
- **is_super_admin_role** (Boolean) Returns true if the role is a super admin role.
- **is_system_role** (Boolean) Returns true if this is a pre-defined system role.

<a id="nestedblock--privileges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `privileges`

Required:

- **privilege_name** (String) The name of the privilege.
- **service_id** (String) The obfuscated ID of the service this privilege is for.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_role.admin 12345678901234567
```

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs

docs/resources/role.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Role resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_role (Resource)

Role resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

locals {
  read_only_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if length(regexall("READ", priv.privilege_name)) > 0
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "read-only" {
  name = "read-only"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.read_only_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Name of the role.
- **privileges** (Block Set, Min: 1) The set of privileges that are granted to this role. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--privileges))

### Optional

- **description** (String) A short description of the role.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of the role.
- **is_super_admin_role** (Boolean) Returns true if the role is a super admin role.
- **is_system_role** (Boolean) Returns true if this is a pre-defined system role.

<a id="nestedblock--privileges"></a>
### Nested Schema for `privileges`

Required:

- **privilege_name** (String) The name of the privilege.
- **service_id** (String) The obfuscated ID of the service this privilege is for.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_role.admin 12345678901234567
```
