docs/resources/role_assignment.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role_assignment Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  RoleAssignment resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.
---

# googleworkspace_role_assignment (Resource)

RoleAssignment resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "googleworkspace_user" "dwight" {
  primary_email = "dwight.schrute@example.com"
  password      = "34819d7beeabb9260a5c854bc85b3e44"
  hash_function = "MD5"

  name {
    family_name = "Schrute"
    given_name  = "Dwight"
  }
}

data "googleworkspace_role" "groups-admin" {
  name = "_GROUPS_ADMIN_ROLE"
}

resource "googleworkspace_role_assignment" "dwight-ra" {
  role_id     = data.googleworkspace_role.groups-admin.id
  assigned_to = googleworkspace_user.dwight.id
}

# role assignments can be scoped to org units, however all privileges must be org_unit compatible

data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

locals {
  org_scopable_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.is_org_unit_scopable
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "org-unit-privs" {
  name = "org-unit-privs"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.org_scopable_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}

resource "googleworkspace_org_unit" "org-unit" {
  name                 = "org-unit"
  parent_org_unit_path = "/"
}

resource "googleworkspace_role_assignment" "org-unit-scope" {
  role_id     = googleworkspace_role.org-unit-privs.id
  assigned_to = googleworkspace_user.dwight.id
  scope_type  = "ORG_UNIT"
  org_unit_id = googleworkspace_user.org-unit.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **assigned_to** (String) The unique ID of the user this role is assigned to.
- **role_id** (String) The ID of the role that is assigned.

### Optional

- **org_unit_id** (String) If the role is restricted to an organization unit, this contains the ID for the organization unit the exercise of this role is restricted to.
- **scope_type** (String) The scope in which this role is assigned. Valid values are 'CUSTOMER' or 'ORG_UNIT' Defaults to `CUSTOMER`.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of this roleAssignment.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_role_assignment.dwight 12345678901234567
```

Commit message:

add client scope where resource/data source resides to description/docs (#158)

docs/resources/role_assignment.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_role_assignment Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Role Assignment resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role Assignment resides under the https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement client scope.
---

# googleworkspace_role_assignment (Resource)

Role Assignment resource in the Terraform Googleworkspace provider. Role Assignment resides under the `https://www.googleapis.com/auth/admin.directory.rolemanagement` client scope.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "googleworkspace_user" "dwight" {
  primary_email = "dwight.schrute@example.com"
  password      = "34819d7beeabb9260a5c854bc85b3e44"
  hash_function = "MD5"

  name {
    family_name = "Schrute"
    given_name  = "Dwight"
  }
}

data "googleworkspace_role" "groups-admin" {
  name = "_GROUPS_ADMIN_ROLE"
}

resource "googleworkspace_role_assignment" "dwight-ra" {
  role_id     = data.googleworkspace_role.groups-admin.id
  assigned_to = googleworkspace_user.dwight.id
}

# role assignments can be scoped to org units, however all privileges must be org_unit compatible

data "googleworkspace_privileges" "privileges" {}

locals {
  org_scopable_privileges = [
    for priv in data.googleworkspace_privileges.privileges.items : priv
    if priv.is_org_unit_scopable
  ]
}

resource "googleworkspace_role" "org-unit-privs" {
  name = "org-unit-privs"

  dynamic "privileges" {
    for_each = local.org_scopable_privileges
    content {
      service_id     = privileges.value["service_id"]
      privilege_name = privileges.value["privilege_name"]
    }
  }
}

resource "googleworkspace_org_unit" "org-unit" {
  name                 = "org-unit"
  parent_org_unit_path = "/"
}

resource "googleworkspace_role_assignment" "org-unit-scope" {
  role_id     = googleworkspace_role.org-unit-privs.id
  assigned_to = googleworkspace_user.dwight.id
  scope_type  = "ORG_UNIT"
  org_unit_id = googleworkspace_user.org-unit.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **assigned_to** (String) The unique ID of the user this role is assigned to.
- **role_id** (String) The ID of the role that is assigned.

### Optional

- **org_unit_id** (String) If the role is restricted to an organization unit, this contains the ID for the organization unit the exercise of this role is restricted to.
- **scope_type** (String) The scope in which this role is assigned. Valid values are 'CUSTOMER' or 'ORG_UNIT' Defaults to `CUSTOMER`.

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) ID of this roleAssignment.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_role_assignment.dwight 12345678901234567
```
