---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "googleworkspace_schema Resource - terraform-provider-googleworkspace"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Schema resource manages Google Workspace Schemas.
---

# googleworkspace_schema (Resource)

Schema resource manages Google Workspace Schemas.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "googleworkspace_schema" "birthday" {
  schema_name = "birthday"

  fields {
    field_name = "birthday"
    field_type = "DATE"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **fields** (Block List, Min: 1) A list of fields in the schema. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--fields))
- **schema_name** (String) The schema's name.

### Optional

- **display_name** (String) Display name for the schema.
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- **etag** (String) ETag of the resource.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **schema_id** (String) The unique identifier of the schema.

<a id="nestedblock--fields"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields`

Required:

- **field_name** (String) The name of the field.
- **field_type** (String) The type of the field. Acceptable values are: BOOL, DATE, DOUBLE, EMAIL, INT64, PHONE, STRING

Optional:

- **display_name** (String) Display Name of the field.
- **indexed** (Boolean) Boolean specifying whether the field is indexed or not. Defaults to `true`.
- **multi_valued** (Boolean) A boolean specifying whether this is a multi-valued field or not. Defaults to `false`.
- **numeric_indexing_spec** (Block List, Max: 1) Indexing spec for a numeric field. By default, only exact match queries will be supported for numeric fields. Setting the numericIndexingSpec allows range queries to be supported. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--fields--numeric_indexing_spec))
- **read_access_type** (String) Specifies who can view values of this field. See Retrieve users as a non-administrator for more information. Acceptable values are: ADMINS_AND_SELF or ALL_DOMAIN_USERS. Note: It may take up to 24 hours for changes to this field to be reflected. Defaults to `ALL_DOMAIN_USERS`.

Read-Only:

- **etag** (String) The ETag of the field.
- **field_id** (String) The unique identifier of the field.

<a id="nestedblock--fields--numeric_indexing_spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `fields.numeric_indexing_spec`

Optional:

- **max_value** (Number) Maximum value of this field. This is meant to be indicativerather than enforced. Values outside this range will still be indexed,but search may not be as performant.
- **min_value** (Number) Minimum value of this field. This is meant to be indicativerather than enforced. Values outside this range will still be indexed,but search may not be as performant.



<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **create** (String)
- **delete** (String)
- **update** (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
terraform import googleworkspace_schema.birthday Ab0C_DEFGhIJKLmNopQ1Rs==
```
